---
layout: post
title: I'm writing a blog again, and text files is the way to go
---

Despite all these years of neglect, I've noticed that there's still people that 
for one reason or another end up in my blog.  This is slightly embarrasing, 
since it's running on a slow VPS host, using a Wordpress that could be easily 
over 4 years old.  Most probably there are some touches of comment spam here 
and there.

I'm hopefully changing this soon (not the random visitors, those I want to 
keep.)  In order to preserve my sanity, the first thing I'm getting rid of is 
Wordpress.  Websites that run dynamic code, no matter the framework, need some 
nice hosting and are a maintenance burden.  So I'm moving to text files spiced 
up with a bit of textile.  I confess that I've chosen the path of least 
resistance when chosing Jekyll as my site generator: I'm already sold to github 
as my repository hosting.  But, in the end, what's important is not the tools 
you are using, it's the content and how that's handled.

And the reason I say this, is because I've lost my content before.  To be fair, 
I didn't care that much about it then.  But, had it been easier, I'd have that 
now with me.  Keeping the content in a nice SQL database is way of an overkill 
for a blog, and it makes you dependant on your tools.  You cannot replace 
Wordpress with Movable Type without a significant amount of work.

On the other hand, text files backups are as easy as it gets, can be edited 
anywhere with any editor and can be easily stored, distributed or deployed by 
using git.  It's the perfect fit for a codemonkey like me, give me some version 
control and an editor and I will feel right at home.

With my motives out of the way, I'll start moving content from my old blog.  
Just don't wait around... it might take a while.
